I'm sharing the top mistakes when it
comes to SAS marketing and how you can
fix them
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top 10 B2B
marketing podcast business for a show
and to check out my free guides
giveaways or whenever you're ready to
apply to work with me head over to
samdunning.org
so after working with a bunch of SAS and
B2B marketing companies for their
website digital and go to market
strategy over the last 13 years plus
interviewing over 340 Founders and
marketing execs from similar companies
on my podcast business growth show these
are the top 10 mistakes that I see and
how to fix them but let's Dive In
so the first top mistake that I see when
it comes to SAS marketing is companies
do not have a dream client profile also
known as an ICP for ideal client profile
why is this an issue looking for your
marketing your ads your Outreach it's
very much gonna be a scatter gun
approach meaning that you're messaging
may not resonate with a prospects you
actually want to be doing business with
to find your dream client profile I
recommend looking at your top customers
in terms of what are the customers we
most enjoy working with what are the
ones we bring Real Results to with our
offer and what are the ones that drive
great Revenue great profit for our
company so if you can find 5 10 ideally
more of these top customers you can then
go one step further and you can
interview them you can start to
understand what type of sector what type
of business they're in what their actual
job titles are
demographics things like that size of
company as well is useful so you can
formulate an understanding of what this
dream client the sector the job title
the type of business size of business
they tend to be within you go one step
further when you run interviews with
them you can ask things like what was
the key frustration the key problem that
you came to us to fix and at what stage
was this problem so infuriating that has
stopped you doing your day-to-day you
realize now's the time you actually
wanted to fix it because understanding
those key problems that they face when
they come to work with an organization
like yours can really Aid your messaging
your outbound campaigns your ads your
website copy to know the language they
used The Insider jargon they use and the
key problems they face their goals their
motivation so work out what your dream
client profile looks like this is going
to be killer to inform your marketing
your ads and your Outreach campaigns
foreign
a terrible website and when I say a
terrible website I mean a website that
does not resonate with your dream client
profile you've probably been there right
there's nothing worse maybe you've done
a Google search maybe you've clicked an
ad maybe you've found someone on
LinkedIn you've listened to my podcasts
or you've been recommended you head to
their website first and foremost it
takes ages to load it's super slow it
perhaps looks terrible it looks like a
potato when you open it on your mobile
it's really difficult to understand what
the actual offer is the problem they
fixed doesn't have the info you need
maybe it lacks some social proof it
lacks results client case studies and
it's quite difficult for you to get in
touch and speak to sales chances are
you're gonna get frustrated you're gonna
bounce off and you're gonna head to a
competitor it gives you a much more
enjoyable experience so your website can
quite literally be your very best or
very worst sales person it's Live 24 7.
so you want to make damn sure that it's
working hard to build trust with your
target audience qualify and convert them
into a steady stream of sales
opportunities and typically from my
experience I'm speaking to hundreds of
buyers in the B2B and SAS space on my
podcast business growth show
they usually want to head onto your site
they want to of course to load quickly
they want it to look great on their
device and they want to quickly get an
idea of what you do how you help them
the problem you fix they want to see
some proof of results so case studies
testimonial videos Etc maybe captera G2
reviews they want to see your offer in
action especially in the SAS industry so
I want to see a live demo or a video of
your product and offer maybe a gif so
they can actually see the product under
the hood before they're ready to speak
to cells they want to see a pricing page
so you want to see a clear idea of what
it costs so they can see if it's within
the budget or not they want to get their
questions answered just want to see FAQs
within offer Pages within product pages
service pages and on the basis you check
all those boxes they want an easy route
to speak to cells to request a demo
maybe you integrate calendly or chili
Piper so they can quickly speak to an
account exec on your team get those
questions answered see the product in
action and then decide if they're ready
to buy or not so great B2B great SAS
website start of Rock Solid research
interviewing your dream client profile
understanding what they want to see on a
website like yours what they really care
about learning seeing doing
type of language they use to inform your
messaging and then building out your
relevant Pages home page service Pages
offer Pages pricing Pages FAQ resources
podcast contact us
Etc to make sure it's really nailing
what your ideal dream clients care about
is super key because like I say a great
website is your very bur best 24 7
salesperson
mistake 3 is going outbound crazy I see
it so many times as SAS companies B2B
companies tech companies they over
invest in outbound sales reps from my
experience outbound sales reps on
average can cost 60k or so per rep per
year in the US
when this can be great if you've got
solid sdrs that are generating a steady
stream of appointments over the phone
email social selling Etc but quite often
they can take quite some time to ramp up
get fully settled in and start
generating those appointments but
oftentimes money can be better placed on
ads SEO content marketing social or
elsewhere on other channels whether
that's YouTube podcasts that your buyers
hang out they consume and will generate
much warmer leads I'm saying there's
nothing wrong with outbound sales but
quite often companies go so hard one of
the first few hires outbound sales reps
when sometimes they could be better
placed on no-brainer inbound channels
that will drive inbound clients much
quicker something to consider
[Music]
in at mistake number four we've got
listening to the demand generation the
demand marketing influences on LinkedIn
so if you're in SAS if you're in B2B
chances are when scrolling LinkedIn
you've seen one of the well-known
influencers saying you need to build
demand you need to create demand for
your offer to cold audiences because
it's way better than doing things like
outbound sales or inbound marketing
because if you create demand you
position your company as the only choice
when prospects when cold prospects
eventually are in Market because you've
educated them on the problem you fix
you've told them about how you help
they've become warmed up to you so when
they are ready to buy they'll come
straight to you there's nothing wrong
with doing demand marketing
but people that purely push demand
generation trying to attract cold
prospects nurture them over time and
then position yourself as the go-to
brand is way way more expensive than
actually capturing prospects that
already have the problem you fixed and
need your solution AKA with channels
like Google search whether that's SEO or
Google AdWords Page search whether it's
with review sites or similes things like
G2 captera clutch where prospects search
for your offer your Solution on Google
they see you top and they go to your
website and then request a demo request
a consult whereas if you're doing demand
generation you're working with those
cold audiences they don't have a clue
about the from you fix or the offer you
provide you're trying to teach them
about it about the problem you're trying
to build some trust there's nothing
wrong with it things like podcasts
YouTube channels things like doing
targeted LinkedIn ads where you share
content to your dream clients over time
you're nurturing them you're sharing
useful ideas inputs you're sharing case
studies So eventually when they're ready
to buy they come to you there's nothing
wrong with that but from a SAS marketing
play I just suggest doing that later
along the line once you've nailed your
no-brainer inbound marketing channels
then start working on demand gen Play
Because demand gen typically is a lot
more expensive to Market to Code Orange
audiences rather than the Walmarts
in at five we've got they wait too long
to build a Content engine a tool that's
going to be your pillar content provider
in this case I recommend a podcast so
just like I've done with business ratio
B2B marketing and demand generation
podcast there's actually two main plays
that I use that you can still so the
first one is an ADM and account based
marketing play where you can make a list
of your dream clients and the dream
companies they work for and then you can
start inviting them to your show I tend
to scout them out on LinkedIn through
the Search tool you send them a really
short Snappy message in my case it might
be something like something like hey I
run a top 10 B2B marketing podcast would
love to get you on to share actual tips
are you against a conversation something
painfully short like that as a pitch
message nine times out of ten they will
accept and then we'll do a great show
we'll talk about actionable tips through
that area of expertise stories insights
more on a dedicated topic around what
they're knowledgeable about and then
once we're done we will promote the show
for our email list on YouTube on the
audio podcast channels or from Reddit on
socials and more and we'll build a great
relationship with that guest meaning
that if they ever need our offers or
services in the future they'll likely
come to us likewise if they meet anyone
that might need our offers again they'll
recommend our services so that's one
play through guest episodes the other
play is solo episodes to build thought
leadership just like I'm doing now where
you share area of expertise around your
Niche you answer common customer common
sales cool questions you share stories
you share your point of view on the
industry all of which can be searchable
content Evergreen content that people
can search on YouTube podcast channels
and more but then with both these types
of episodes I've talked about you can
transcribe them put them through an AI
tool like otter or similar and then you
can work those into blog articles again
can be searchable can have an SEO play
you can chop all the clips up the video
clips into micro clips for shorts on
YouTube Tick Tock and then use them on
LinkedIn on other channels and more so
it can really fuel so many different
repurposed plays for content and also
building awareness SEO plays and driving
inbound on several channels
thank you
in at six we've got tunnel vision what I
mean by this is when SAS companies think
they need to stick to one of the
following found a leg growth product
like growth marketing their growth of
sales lead growth and some of the most
successful companies I've seen actually
do a blend of all the above so you've
got product LED where you might just
rely on your website to drive the
synapse all the tools the product itself
is within their signups demos start
using the tool start go to a premium
version from a free version when in fact
Sometimes the best move can be doing
this Blended approach so maybe you do
some inbound marketing you do paid
search Google ads do some SEO maybe do
some review sites maybe you also have a
small outbound sales team with a really
pinpointed targeted approach to your
dream clients you use the website for
product LED you do the marketing you do
the sales and also your founder is
active so your Founders leveraging their
Network your Founders leveraging
Partnerships to start with and maybe
they're doing some organic content on
LinkedIn if you're in the B2B space so
you're doing a bit of all the above
rather than just relying solely on one
route you've got multiple ways to bring
in new customers into the pipeline
foreign
we've got a no-brainer we've got
building Partnerships this is something
I ignored for way too long but
Partnerships are super effective and
they're not going to cost you really a
penny but they're a great way to drive
sales pipeline grow Revenue go customers
and it's not really going to cost you
anything at all so I ignore this for a
long long time but as an active example
we get quite a lot of inquiries for
LinkedIn ads we don't do it in-house we
focus on B2B SEO B2B websites and B2B
marketing and SAS marketing Consulting
so every time we get that request we'll
send those leads straight to this
LinkedIn ads agency
and likewise if they get requests for
b2p websites SEO GTM Consulting for B2B
and SAS they'll send them my way so
we've got a solid flow there to send
work each other's way so you want to
find out complementary companies aren't
direct competitors serve the same type
of audiences start striking up some
conversations with those build out some
solid partnership schemes great way to
get customers in your pipeline won't
cost you a penny foreign
we've got neglecting your existing
customers easily done if you're a fast
growth SAS or B2B company you're
constantly looking for ways to acquire
new clients grow your pipeline and grow
revenue and quite often your existing
customer base is neglected we all know
it's way way cheaper to upsell an
existing customer than it is to acquire
a new one into the pipeline so you want
to be scheduling regular customer
success calls with your existing client
base asking things like how you're
getting on with our product support
offer what can we be doing further to
support and ensure your success is there
anything that you'd like to see we build
out on our product or offer roadmap and
really taking the time to ask these
questions and see how you can serve them
better not only is that going to help
them trust you more it'll also give you
ideas for product updates if there's
regular requests from lots of customers
and it shows that you actually care
about your invest in their interests to
support them plus once you've got that
trust you can recommend upsells if
there's other features offers
complementary things you can recommend
their way you can upsell existing
clients plus you can ask for
recommendations for people that they
know that might have a similar problem
to what they came to you with so you can
get extra customers in the pipeline
through Word of Mouth recommendations
from your existing client customers
already now trust you
at number nine we've got relying on one
marketing channel for your growth now it
might be that you've got one marketing
channel that drives 90 of your business
perhaps it's referrals Word of Mouth
paid ads SEO emails something else
but think about it for a second
if that channel suddenly crashes takes a
hit or dips what the hell are you gonna
do to drive new business you're going to
be stuck right this is why it's so
important to have a mix of channels for
security so if one takes a hit you've
got several others to drive brand trust
and most importantly inbound customers I
recommend having a mix of channels you
rent I.E social media channels that you
can't control and channels you fully own
I.E things like your website
blog email list video channels like on
YouTube and similar so that way we've
got a bunch of different channels be it
page channels be it social be it your
website via email list be it video and
so on some you run some you own one
takes a hit no massive problem because
you've got a bunch of other channels
where your customers hang out where they
use that's going to continue to be
effectively sales people to build trust
of them share what you do problems you
fix and drive inbound so diversify your
risk by having a range of channels to
drive inbounds
[Music]
at number 10 last but definitely not
least is unclear messaging I've been
there you've probably been there looking
for a SAS tool you go onto the SAS
website and the headline is quite
literally as clear as mud it's something
like we're a 360 degree Cutting Edge
supercharged tool for your Enterprise
you're like what the heck does that even
mean you've scrolled further down the
home page and you're still none the
wiser to what they do the problem they
fix or how they can help you Donald
Miller I believe coined a phrase called
if you're confused you lose and it
couldn't be truer for your messaging
well that's your homepage headline your
ads your marketing material more it's
much much wiser be crystal clear and
trying to be smart and filling your
titles your headlines with jargon and
just confusing your prospects making
them likely to bounce to a competitor
but much much clearer on their value
proposition so I recommend typically
using problems that you fix
your value prop how you improve people's
lives how you improve their business or
maybe how your difference your
competitors your main headlines
messaging and similar it's much smarter
to be crystal clear on the property fix
the value you provide or the offer that
you provide as opposed to trying to
sound smart using jargon and most of the
time you're just going to confuse and
make your prospects drop off to a
competitor
and there you have it those are some of
the top mistakes and how to fix them the
SAS marketing if you enjoyed today's
episode a rating a review on your
podcast Channel or subscribe on YouTube
is very much appreciated and if you want
more free resources or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to samdunning.org